With everything that we've covered so far,
we are ready to replace now our local
storage implementation with IndexedDB.
What do you think?
So follow along with
the instructions here.
We are in databases, setting up IndexedDB.
So the first thing that we should
do is to add the wrapper, okay?
The wrapper here have the link
to actually get into the repo.
By the way,
the wrapper was created by Jake Archibald
that you may know from the Chrome team.
Well, installation, there are three ways
where you can install or use this library.
Like with npm, in case you
are using modules like our case,
we could use this way like you import from
directly a CDN these global functions.
In this case, this is going to
replace not actually replace, but
it's going to be on top of the regional
API okay but only for that module.
So add on every module that you need to
use i index DV you have to import that.
But I think that for our case it's better
to use like the old classic import
that will actually be a global thing for
your whole project.
Okay.
It is just copy and
pasting the script that
you have here in our html.
Okay.
And I'm going to paste that actually
in this case I think the order will not
matter a lot.
So I'm going to index html.
I'm going to paste the script
before the app, just that.
So just with that,
we are ready now to open databases and
using IndexedDB with this library,
okay, with this wrapper.
Again, this wrapper is not actually
changing IndexedDB with a different API.
It's just adding promises.
And helping us with this single
transaction operations that's all.
All the rest is actually the IndexedDB API
with the same arguments with
the same way of working that.
Same way we're thinking.
That's why it's a very simple API.
Okay, makes sense.
Well, so what do we need to change now?
Well, we need to change.
Again, order js, load and save.
Okay, if you wanna keep those,
you can like we can call this load in
webstorage saving webstorage in case
you want to keep those versions.
And I'm going to create to other versions
that that will be, IndexedDB based.
Okay, make sense?
First both when we
are loading the database and
saving the database,
I should open the database.
So maybe it's a good idea to
create also an open database
function that we are going to
call from both load and save.
Makes sense because I know that I will
need to open this in both situations.
And the other thing that I need to do is
to convert these three functions into
async functions.
Why?
Because I know for sure that I'm
going to use a weight because
the library that I'm using
the wrapper is using promises.
Okay?
Make sense?
So we need to open the database.
So this was actually idb,
that's the library
OpenDB, a name, we can prefix this
with coffee masters, so for example,
coffee master web storage or storage or
whatever, the version number, and then
I'm going to provide an object that will
contain a function with the name upgrade.
Okay, like so.
Now, we did the upgrade.
This is a place where we
can create data stores.
In fact, it's the only place
where we can create data stores.
So it's that database is open in
a way where we have permissions
to actually change the schema of the
database such as creating new data stores.
Does that make sense?
And this function receives some
arguments such as the new version,
the old version, and so on.
But the first one is
the database reference.
And I need that because now I
want to talk to my database.
And I'm going to create
an objectStore with a name, okay?
Which name?
Any name.
This is the order section,
so we can call it order.
This is asynchronous API so
if I want I can wait for it and
that means I need to convert
my function into a sync.
Make sense?
So this will open the database and
create the database the first time.
That's kind of the idea.
If it's already there, so if I already
have these name with the version
number one, he will just open it he
wants to execute my upgrade function.
Does it make sense?
Yeah any question?
The only thing that I should do
is this is a function that I
will call from load and save.
So I need to by the way, this is not
idb Carson, it's idb lower case.
I need to return this and
also I need to wait for it.
Okay, so every call or most of the calls
that we have now in IndexedDB,
I'm returning a promise.
Okay, makes sense?
Any question?
Nope?
So let's do the same first.
That was the simplest one
remember before we so
what I need first is is
a reference to the database.
So now I'm going to wait for order openDB.
That's actually the method
I have just created.
That return will return me
a reference to the database.
And here I can, directly go, and
save an object, with the API, okay?
It's actually, pretty simple.
So, I can add, or I can put.
What's the difference?
Add will add a new value,
always a new value.
If it's already there,
it will give me an error.
Put, will put a value over the key.
If it's there, it's going to replace that.
If it's not there, it will just add it.
So put it both insert and
update in this case.
So it will just make sure that we
won't have more than one for that key.
Okay.
Make sense?
Just remember that we should
always await for everything here.
So it's a wait for a put.
So these methods always work
in the same way with the first
argument is actually the name
of the objectStore, right?
So order.
Then, be careful because BSCode is
showing me the help of something
completely different, okay?
So it's a cache API, but
that's not the API I'm using right now.
So don't get confused.
So the help, the hints, that you get
from BS Code at this point are not okay.
If you're using TypeScript,
you won't have that problem, okay?
But because we're in JavaScript,sometimes,
yeah, it gets weird.
So we're going to put in the order,
we're going to put the value,
this is not key value, it's value key.
That's how it works, idb, so be careful.
Because on local storage it was
key value and now it's value key.
So first we are going to,
I'm keeping this simple for now, so
just doing the same as
we was doing before.
So I'm still stringifying
the cart with the key cart.
I don't need to prefix the key
as before because I already have
the database prefixed make sense?
So you just need to prefix whatever
goes first in the browser as
a reference to the storage,
Okay, make sense?
Do you need to do anything else choose for
saving?
Nope, that's all.
Let's see.
This in action.
So if I refresh well now
because it's loading is empty,
it's not loading, which is okay.
I will add this to my cart
I cappuccinos as well.
So now, let's refresh.
I'm still not getting nothing because
the load is empty, but look at the quota.
Now, I'm using some quota.
It was zero before.
What is that?
IndexedDB and
it's currently using 3K, okay?
Which is bad.
That's fine.
Expectable.
So if I'm going to application,
now within the storage,
I can now see IndexedDB
has a little arrow there.
That means that there is something inside.
I can open that.
I have the database cm storage.
I can see here the current version.
How many objects store do we have here?
I can delete the database
from here from dev tools, and
I can open that database and
I'm seeing my data store.
And in the data store I have my cart.
That is not working because I
still have the loading problem.
Okay, so but
look at this if I'm adding something
to the cart I need to refresh
here the cart is there.
Again here I'm just taking whatever
I have in web storage, and
moving that into Indexed DB.
Maybe you're thinking,
well, that's an array.
Maybe we should store element by element,
okay, but for this exercise.
But when I'm making this simple,
it's just taking the same that we have
in web storage and
replace that with an IndexedBD version.
Any questions so far on this?
Makes sense?
Does it look scary?
The API?
>> I have a question.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there any kind of best practice or
rule of thumb to since in our case,
the object only contains,
like, nested primitives and
serializable data.
Is there any reason to prefer
to stringify the object in our
code versus storing
the object in a verbatim?
>> In this case, no, there is no reason,
just to keep the same as the Web Storage.
But you're right.
Can we just store the cart?
Yes, because it's something
that we can clone.
If it's something that you can clone,
you can story safety.
So yeah, you're right.
We can remove the JSON Stringify at all.
>> Is there any kind of best practice or
thing to keep in mind?
>> I mean if you don't need the Stringify,
you don't need that,
it will be more performant
to not to have it.
Yeah, it's up to you.
So now, it's time to talk about the load.
Where on the load I will also need In the
same database, so I will wait for openDB.
So now that I do have this, so
what do I need to do first?
So remember in our code with webstorage I
was checking if I do have something, okay.
How can we ask something like that?
Here if I do have something with the API
that we saw that we cover in the slides
I could check count.
Remember there was a count.
So I could check that, that's one option.
If not try to just have to take the cart,
okay.
How?
Await db.get.
We do have a key, so it's first,
always first goes the store name.
So from order that's the store
name that we were using here.
So from the same thing,
I want the key cart.
Make sense?
And I can also check if it does exist.
If it's not, it will give you
something that will trigger a false.
So that means that, I mean, I can count or
I can just get the value and
if it's not there, it will not work.
So it will be false in this condition.
So now I'm here, I can try to again
we can try to remove the JSON
stringify and JSON as he suggested and
it should work.
In this case because I wanted to keep the
same experience just to show you how you
can just move quickly from local
storage to something different.
But again, we have the same
problem that someone can get
into my IndexedDB and
make this JSON invalid.
So I should always, every time you're
working with client side data storage,
you should always think
that everything will fail.
Okay, so now you can say data corrupted or
whatever.
And if it's corrupted, what you can do,
you could delete the database or
you can delete the data store, okay?
Something like that.
The other thing that I
need is to call render.
Because if I don't rerender I'm
still seeing an empty cart.
So I will add an Americano I had
three Americanos, I will refresh.
I still have three Americanos.
But now, I'm not using web storage,
I'm using IndexedDB.
Again in this example that is pretty
simple, we will notice a difference.
But if it's a more complex scenario,
this version is much more performance.
We have any question this
first simple idb example.
>> Opinion question.
I think the two I've worked with or
encountered before were idb and Dexie.
Did you choose idb for this for
purely pedagogical reasons?
Is there, you know?
>> So the question is around why am
I choosing to keep an idb wrapper and
not Dexie or any other thing.
In this case it's a matter of choice.
So when you go with Dexie,
let's see vaccine.
So we know where we're talking about.
It's a DB wrapper, but
don't just a wrapper is changing
the way you're thinking okay?
So yeah, I like the Dexie,
so I like it [LAUGH] But
it's not actually following
IndexedDB practices.
So I think that for a workshop,
it's better to cover
the library IndexedDB.
Maybe it's too much to cover the original
API because no one likes that API.
So that's why today you will
see more websites using things
like idb than other frameworks.
Because the other frameworks like Dexie
it's a matter of taste at one point,
right?
So, for example,
this is how Dexie looks like you'll create
an idb database you create a new Dexie and
it has the same because it's using
the IndexedDB behind the scenes.
It has the same ideas like you
have a version you create here at
the store with these you
are creating the primary key, and
additional indexes that
we haven't seen yet.
So it has it like a different syntax,
yeah, maybe you can say,
well, I think it's a better syntax,
yeah well, maybe.
And you can create some kind of,
sort of SQL but
it looks like Link or LinkU for.NET.
I'm not sure if you have seen that.
Where you kind of create
queries with functions,
with some kind of functional programming.
And internally it's using
the IndexedDB APIs.
Okay, but
it's just that it's a matter of taste.
If you like Dexie, go ahead.
It's a good library.
It's well supported in the community,
so yeah, it's fair to use it.
But well, this is 25k against one, yeah.
I think that it depends on
the project if you feel like, yeah,
I have enough data,
I have enough data store,
enough complexity that will
worth to use a better library.